Round 1

Jen opens with a low kick, high kick combo that rocks Knightley.  Looks like this one might be over before it starts.

K clinches, then shows she's got more to give by immediately tripping for the takedown.

K gets side control and goes for the armbar.  J quickly fights it off.

K tries to move to full mount.  J catches her in her guard.

0:55

K throws punches and tries to grind her way past guard.  J struggles, but maintains her defensive position.

J reverse and rolls to mount.

J maintains mount for nearly a full minute but K fights tooth and nail the whole time, preventing J from doing any significant damage.

2:00

K reverses back to mount.

J grapples and stalls.  Ref (Fearne Cotton) steps in and gets them back to standing.

2:15

J tries a low right, high kick combo.  The right scores but K dodges the kick, and scores with a low kick of her own.

J fakes the jab and launches a right hook that K avoids.

K starts forward.  J counters with a knee strike.  K backs out and narrowly avoids the blow.

2:55

K shoots for a takedown.  J counters with a kick.  Again, K is able to stop short and avoid damage.

J looks to maintain space with her jab.  K gets aggressive and scoops the punch aside, then throws a short left hook with the same hand.  An unorthodox punch that lacks weight-driven power, but it was also foolproof.  With her right arm knocked aside and her left arm in it's customary guard position, J was wide-open.  K rolls directly into a hook from the other side, but J manages to avoid the blow.

3:15

The 'championship minutes' seem to be taking a toll on J.  She tries to clinch, but K pushes her away.

J keeps pushing the action.  She pads out a pair of jabs, then tries the right hook again.  K sees it coming and sways out of reach.

J kicks low.  K check it with her shin.

3:45

Fatigue shows through on J as she launches a looping right hand.  K easily avoids and counters with a perfect one-two.  J staggers, and K chases her down with a series of combinations that do some damage.

J circles out and tries another kick.  K is not impressed as she blocks it easily.

J goes back to the hook.  K counters: jab, uppercut.  J stumbles away from the impact.  Blood is visible on her chin as the fighters reset.

4:15

J shows some life, spotting an opening and putting a wicked right hand into it.  K seems surprised, but narrowly avoids and circles away.

A lot of circling and jabbing follows, as even K seems to be showing a little fatigue late in the round.

4:50

The clacker sounds and both fighters perk up.  Each looking to put her stamp on a round that is likely leaning K's way.  A lot of furious punching goes mostly for naught, with neither scoring anything significant.

***

The break is fairly routine in both corners.  Marcy puts a quick stop to the bleeding.  Steph and Tiz seem to spend most of the time on encouragement.  The plan in round one didn't go perfectly, but there was nothing inherently wrong with it, either.  J seemed to match her opponent for the better part of the round before it slipped away from her in the closing minutes.  Both cornerwomen seem to understand that fatigue is the issue here.  On the surface, it doesn't seem like a major thing.  So J is a little tired?  She's a big girl.  She'll push on.  No doubt that's true, but the problem runs much deeper than that because it's not something than can be corrected in the middle of the fight.  So I know Steph is pushing for J to make another fast start in round 2.  It's really the only option.  If J doesn't get out there and do significant damage early, there's a good chance she won't make it to the end.

***

As expected, J comes out punching at the bell.  K takes a few punches on her guard, then finds her opening and nails J with a brutal right hook.

And this is why the fatigue issue is such a big problem.  K is an experienced and infinitely talented fighter, and she has good people behind her.  All of them saw the way J fell off as the first round went along.  All of knew - just as I did - that the only way to make up for it is for J to score early and often.  K knew J would be on the attack from the outset, and she had all the defensive skills she needed to handle it and turn it into an advantage.

J pushed forward behind the jab, then launched a bone-shattering right hand.  K dodged and circled away.

J pursued her, pushing her back with a series of big combinations.  K calmly defended and skipped away.

I was starting to get a sinking feeling in pit of my stomach.  J was doing all she could, but she wasn't having any luck.  Meanwhile, K seemed content to rely of her defense and wait until the moment was right.

Another combo from Jennifer amounted to nothing.  This time K saw an opportunity and fired back with an uppercut that landed perfectly.  J backed away and tried to shake it off.

1:05

J fakes the jab, then launches a mighty high kick.  Going for it all with one big move.  It missed by a while, and the door was left wide open for K.  She did not let the moment pass her by as she hammered a pair of hooks into J's ribs.

1:25

J tries to grapple, and I know she's flagging.  J is a strike-first kind of fighter, so this grappling is akin to clinching in a boxing match.  Just a way to buy some recovery time.  It's not the kind of thing that will work against K though, as she shakes loose and launches an attack.

Jab, High kick.

I swear to you that her toenail grazed J's chin.  That's how close she came to ending this fight right then and there.

J's tries to grapple again, but K pushes her off and keeps the fight at striking range.

J pushes forward and launches a few punches.  K decides to trade with her and comes out the winner of the brief exchange.

2:45

K shows her experience.  As J looks to grapple again, K decides to oblige her.  Expecting a fight, J is taken by surprise, allowing K to get the better position.  After a few seconds of grappling, K starts firing knee strikes.  It only takes a few before instinct overrides training and J brings her guard down in a desperate effort to make it stop.  That opens a window for K to throw a vicious uppercut that ends the fight.



